You made it through data security and privacy. Great job.
You now have a good understanding of what laws and
regulations you may encounter when working with EHR data.
Speaking of data, it's time to explore some data,
having a great understanding of your data before you start working
with it and building the models is extremely important.
The best way to do that is with exploratory data analysis.
This section might be a review for you overall,
but you'll learn how to apply exploratory data analysis
in the context of working with healthcare data. Let's face it.
We all need practice to exploring data.
So put on your safari hat,
it's time to explore.
Before we get started though,
I just want to explain a few key abbreviations.
First, as mentioned earlier,
EDA is short for exploratory data analysis.
Second, CRISP-DM, in case you are not familiar with,
is a common framework you use for data science projects.
The diagram is the visualization of the key steps in a data science project.
For this section, we will be doing EDA within
the context of a data understanding phase of CRISP-DM.
EDA is a step in the data science process that is often overlooked for
the modeling in evaluation phase that can be easier to quantify and benchmark.
However, EDA is important step that can be critical for building the model correctly,
and avoiding common pitfalls such as representing the data incorrectly,
not filtering out null,
malformed values, data leakage.
This is especially the case for healthcare where you
have multiple code sets that you're dealing with,
as well as unique aggregation levels that are specific to healthcare.
Just to reiterate why it is important to understand
your data before you do a lot of work transforming data,
building and evaluating features in modeling,
here are just a few reasons why EDA is
an important step in the life cycle of a data science project.
EDA can enable you to discover features,
or data transformations that might have data leakage.
This can save tremendous amount of time and prevent you from building a flawed model.
I can tell you that this is a more common,
a real-life issue than you might expect.
EDA can also help you better translate and define modeling objectives,
and corresponding evaluation metrics from a machine learning and business perspective.
EDA can also help inform strategies for handling missing null value data.
This is a common issue that you'll encounter with
EHR data that you will have missing values,
and have to determine impeding strategies accordingly.
We won't cover this in detail in this course,
but you being aware of the assumptions for how data
is prepared is especially important with EHR data,
where you might have a DBA,
or data engineer that might not be familiar
with how you plan to use the data for machine learning.
Lastly, EDA can help to identify subsets of
features to utilize for feature engineering and modeling,
along with appropriate feature transformations based off of type.